---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-08T15:14:37.998Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-08T14:46:09.003Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-08-8b8d0f0a-9537-4a7a-84d7-0d9ccfd908db.md
published: true
url: 8b8d0f0a-9537-4a7a-84d7-0d9ccfd908db/index.html
_type: Article

---
Are we watching the slow death of high stakes testing? Could it be true? Has someone actually listened to logic and reason and started to pull back on mandatory testing? We will have to wait and see, but it feels like we might be moving in (dare I say) a better direction.

But ........there is always a "but"!

The word accountability will still loom over educators, and honestly it should. Teachers should embrace the word accountability. We want to be held accountable for the education of our students. At least the good teachers are not concerned about being held accountable because they do their job and do it well. The question should not be "should we be held accountable", but rather it should be "for what are we being held accountable". That may seem like a silly question; of course we are to educate students. We have always been accountable for their education. Right? Wrong! For over the past decade we were not held accountable for our students' education, we were held accountable for their score on a test. Passing a test is not educating American students. So how do we determine success in a public school system? So what does constitute success?

Maybe we need to look at the concept of accountability in reverse, somewhat like the Backwards Design Model. If a student becomes a contributing member of society, embracing community service and service to others, that to me is a successful school program. If a student graduates from college or some other form of advanced education having accomplished his/her goals, that to me is a successful school program. If a student graduates from high school with his/her eye on future goals, that to me is a successful school program. Success is not about arbitrary numbers or tests; it's about ideals and meeting goals.

As educators, we want...  
1\. Our students to graduate from high school with future goals in mind.  
2\. Our students to have some destination after high school. That could be a college, trade school, military training or job. We want them to have and fulfil a plan for their immediate future.  
3\. Our students to eventually be contributing members of society.  
4\. Our students to embrace a mindset for service to others.

Isn't that the true conclusion we want from a successful educational program. Sadly, with our current accountability indicators, there are many students who have claimed success based on testing standards, but have not and possibly will not fulfill the accountability standards of the success indicators listed above.  
The nest step in the process of creating a realistic accountability process for educators is to translate these success indicators into some form of data that can quantify success. Stay tuned.